trunk/docs/rst/supported-commands/create-producer.rst, before:

==========================
Create Durableg Subscriber
==========================

`master command list`_

URL-Pattern

  SESSION_URI/create-producer

Expected-Parameters 

  (required) *destination-url*

  (optional) *time-to-live*

  (optional) *delivery-mode*

  (optional) *disable-timestamps*

  (optional) *distable-messageIds*

  (optional) *priority*
  
Returns

  Location (HTTP header) : the URI of the created producer

This POST request creates a new JMS Producer by invoking the JMS API
with parameters derived from the request.  The command

* constructs a producer for sending messages to the supplied
  destination-url.

* the destination-url *must* be a destination URI belonging to the
  same Provider as the one in which the consumer is being created.

* the destination-url may refer to either a JMS Topic or a JMS Queue.

* optionally creates the producer and modifies its behaviour using the
  values of *delivery-mode*, *priority*, *time-to-live*,
  *disable-timestamps*, and *disable-messageIds*.

* returns the URI of the created connection.

Consult [JMSSpec]_ for further information on creating JMS Producers,
particularly about the meaning of the various optional arguments to
the command.

.. _master command list: ./master-command-list.html
.. [JMSSpec] `Java Message Service specification 1.1
   <http://java.sun.com/products/jms/docs.html>`_

Commit message:

first pass on all JMS Command documentation

trunk/docs/rst/supported-commands/create-producer.rst, after:

===============
Create Producer
===============

`back to commands`_

:URL-Pattern: *session-uri*/create-producer

:Parameters:

  (required) *destination-url*

  (optional) *time-to-live*

  (optional) *delivery-mode*

  (optional) *disable-timestamps*

  (optional) *distable-messageIds*

  (optional) *priority*
  
:Returns:

  Location (HTTP header) : the URI of the created producer

This POST request creates a new JMS Producer by invoking the JMS API
with parameters derived from the request.  The command

* constructs a producer for sending messages to the supplied
  destination-url.

* the destination-url *must* be a destination URI belonging to the
  same Provider as the one in which the consumer is being created.

* the destination-url may refer to either a JMS Topic or a JMS Queue.

* optionally creates the producer and modifies its behaviour using the
  values of *delivery-mode*, *priority*, *time-to-live*,
  *disable-timestamps*, and *disable-messageIds*.

* returns the URI of the created producer.

Consult [JMSSpec]_ for further information on creating JMS Producers,
particularly about the meaning of the various optional arguments to
the command.

.. _back to commands: ./index.html
.. [JMSSpec] `Java Message Service specification 1.1
   <http://java.sun.com/products/jms/docs.html>`_
